---
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Cooley System Overview

The primary purpose of Cooley is to analyze and visualize data produced on ALCF supercomputers. Equipped with state-of-the-art graphics processing units (GPUs), Cooley converts computational data  into high-resolution visual representations. The resulting images, videos, and animations help users to better analyze and understand the data generated by ALCF supercomputers. Cooley can also be used for statistical analysis, helping to pinpoint trends in the simulation data. Additionally, the system is capable of preprocessing efforts, such as meshing, to assist users preparing for production simulations.

Cooley mounts to the Theta file system enabling direct access to Theta-generated results. Theta's project directory can be accessed in /lus/theta-fs0/projects.

Cooley has a total of 126 compute nodes; each node has 12 CPU cores and one NVIDIA Tesla K80 dual-GPU card.  Aggregate GPU peak performance is over 293 teraflops double precision (using base GPU clocks), and the entire system has a total of 47 terabytes of system RAM and 3 terabytes of GPU RAM.  Access to Cooley is provided by two login nodes, which provide compilation and job submission capabilities.  Job scheduling is provided by the Cobalt job scheduler. All Theta users are approved for a default allocation of 8000 node-hours on Cooley.

## Cooley Node Configuration

| Specifications |   |
| :----------- | ----------- |
| Architecture      | Intel Haswell |
| Speed      | 293 teraflops      |
| Processors per node   | Two 6-core, 2.4-GHz Intel E5–2620       |
| GPU per node      | 1 NVIDIA Tesla K80 w/dual GPUs     |
| Nodes   | 126        |
| Cores      | 1,512       |
| Memory   | 47 TB        |
| GPU memory      | 3 TB       |
| Interconnect   | FDR InfiniBand network        |
| Racks   | 6        |
